---
title: "Gentrification and Redevelopment in General Equilibrium"
collection: worksinprogress
permalink: /research/gent
category: manuscripts
date: 2024-09-02
---
with [Guangbin Hong](https://www.guangbinhong.com/). 
<small> 
<br/>
<br/>
Draft coming soon. Slides available upon request. <small>
<details><summary>Abstract:</summary>
<br/>
<small>In this paper, we consider the effect of housing teardown taxes on teardown rates, the distribution of housing prices, and welfare. 
Using a spatial difference-in-difference design, we show that a trial teardown tax of \$15,000 implemented in two Chicago neighborhoods cut the probability of a 
demolition permit being issued in half. We supplement this finding with evidence that redevelopment activity in Chicago caused large increases local neighborhood income. 
Motivated by this evidence, we construct a general equilibrium model that features forward-looking housing developers, 
households who differ on income and preferences for low and high quality housing, and costly movement across neighborhoods. Developers choose when to (re)develop and how many housing units to build subject to the teardown tax. 
New housing is of high quality, depreciates slowly over time, and "filters" to low income households. 
We show that scaling the teardown tax to \$60,000 and increasing spatial coverage confers benefits to low income renters (0.5% of income), 
but decreases average housing quality and land values by even more. These effects take decades to materialize. </small>
</details>

